# Home Service Robot
Simulation: my_robot navigates to pickup and drop-off locations in a Gazebo world environment. 
A marker is displayed at the pickup location until the robot reaches it, and reappears when the robot subsequently 
reaches the drop-off location.

Mapping: The map used by the robot for navigation is generated with the ROS gmapping package, which uses graph slam to simultaneously localize the robot and create an occupancy grid for the environment.
This process can be achieved by running the test_slam.sh script in /catkin_ws/src/scripts and navigating manually with the keyboard via the keyboard_teleop node.

Localization: Achieved using Adaptive Monte Carlo Localization (AMCL) - or a particle filter - with knowledge of the map generated by SLAM in the previous step. The amcl node subscribes to the map topic.

Path planning: the custom pick_objects node communicates with the ROS navigation stack. When a goal is sent, a SimpleActionClient uses Djikstra's Algorithm to find a path to the goal. The planner is subscribed to the map topic.

In order to carry out the task of navigating to pickup and drop-off locations, the pick_objects node publishes the x, y coordinates of the robot to the "robot_pose_event" topic 
pick_objects publish the robot pose when successfull completion of tasks of reaching pickup and drop of location.
The add_markers node subscribes to the "robot_pose_event" topic and either adds or deletes a marker, depending on the robot pose sent by the pick_objects node.


Dependencies
ROS: Install Robot Operating System (ROS) by following these instructions: http://wiki.ros.org/Installation

Follow the instructions for a Desktop-Full Install.
Gazebo: Follow the instructions for your environment at http://gazebosim.org/tutorials?cat=install

Ubuntu one line installation:

$ curl -sSL http://get.gazebosim.org | sh

Installation
Step 1: Clone the repository into your workspace

$ git clone https://github.com/lokeshs26gp/Robotics_Home_serviceRobot/tree/main/project5(Home_service)
Step 2: Initialize a catkin workspace inside src

$ cd project5(Home_service)/catkin_ws/src
$ catkin_init_workspace
Step 3: Move up to the catkin workspace root, build the package, and source the environment

$ cd ..
$ catkin_make
$ source devel/setup.bash
Usage
Make the script home_service.sh executable and run it
$ cd /project5(Home_service)/catkin_ws/src/scripts
$ chmod +x ./home_service.sh
$ ./home_service.sh

